 ZedongMao Zedong is one of the most famous people in Asia. He was the first chairman of the Communist Party of China, ruling the country from its establishment in 1949 until his death in 1976. His theories, military strategies, and political policies are collectively known as Maoism. Mao Zedong was born in Shaoshan, Hunan, on December 26, 1893, into a peasant family. He was the eldest of three sons. His father, Mao Yichang, was a formerly impoverished peasant who had become one of the wealthiest farmers in Shaoshan. becomes extremely wealthy. Mao's mother, Wen Qimei, was a devout Buddhist who tried to temper her husband's strictness. Zedong would later claim that his father's uncompromising attitudes toward anti-imperialism and class struggle had a profound effect on his own political views. In 1911, Mao began middle school in Changsha. He tutored students to earn extra money, and he also gave soldiers massage to earn a little more. In school, he was often teased by his classmates because he came from a poor background. In 1914, Mao graduated from middle school in the top third of his class.After graduation, Mao's father insisted that he return to Shaoshan to work on the family farm. However, Mao was determined to continue his education and convinced his father to let him go to Beijing. In Beijing, Mao enrolled in the prestigious Xiang Xuan Academy, a Church-run institution. However, he was soon disillusioned by the school's elitist and conservative curriculum and quit after one year. From 1917 to 1919, Mao Zedong worked as an assistant librarian at Peking University. It was during this time that he began to develop his political views. He was heavily influenced by the works of Karl Marx and Vladimir Lenin. In 1918, Mao married Yang Kaihui, his first wife. The couple had two sons, both of whom died in childhood.In the summer of 1919, Mao attended a series of meetings in Beijing that would later be known as the May Fourth Movement. The May Fourth Movement was a nationalist movement that called for a more assertive Chinese foreign policy and an end to imperial rule. Mao Zedong was an active participant in the movement. In 1920, Mao joined the Chinese Communist Party (CCP). The CCP was a small, underground party that was committed to overthrowing the Nationalist government. In 1921, Mao attended the CCP's first national congress. At the congress, he was elected to the party's Central Committee.In 1922, Mao Zedong became a member of the CCP's Politburo, the party's highest decision-making body. In 1923, Mao and other top CCP leaders launched an uprising against the Nationalist government in Guangzhou. The uprising was quickly crushed, and Mao was forced to flee to the countryside. In 1927, Mao Zedong launched another uprising, this time in Hunan. The uprising was again defeated, and Mao was forced to flee, this time to the Soviet Union.In 1936, Mao Zedong returned to China. He was appointed head of the CCP's newly established base in Yan'an, in China's northwest. In Yan'an, Mao developed a new strategy for winning the civil war that was raging across China. Mao's strategy, known as the "people's war," called for mobilizing the rural peasants to fight the Chinese army. In 1949, the CCP finally emerged victorious from the civil war, and Mao Zedong became the chairman of the Chinese Communist Party. As chairman, Mao Zedong held absolute power over China. He launched a series of radical economic and social programs that were aimed at transforming China into a communist society.Mao Zedong's rule was marked by economic mismanagement, political repression, and mass violence. In 1966, he launched the Cultural Revolution, a decade-long campaign of political and social chaos. The Cultural Revolution succeeded in further alienating the Chinese people from the Communist Party. Mao Zedong's health began to decline in the early 1970s, and he died on September 9, 1976.